{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 bash\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
shell\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
git\par
creating a new branch : root@ip-172-31-35-1:/home/ubuntu/ci-cd# git checkout -b features/database\par
clonning by token : git clone {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://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@github.com/muhammadtouseef11222211/ci-cd }}{\fldrslt{https://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@github.com/muhammadtouseef11222211/ci-cd\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
resolving conflict : git add <resolved-file>  , git rebase --continue , git push origin HEAD:<name-of-remote-branch>\par
\par
git stash , git stash pop , (for ignorning changing and comming back them)\par
git log (for history)\par
copy hash , then git checkout hash\par
git reset --hard HEAD~1 (HERE 1 SHOWS TO UNDO ONLY 1 COMMIT REVERT , also discard the changes)\par
git reset -- HEAD~1 (it keep the changes but delete the commit)\par
git commit -amend (add commit to last commit)\par
git push --force (to do if any push become wrong)\par
git revert (hash of commit) => good approach (it creates another file with revert tag to show it has been change)\par
to pull changes from master to your branch (git checkout master , git pull , git merge master)\par
netstat -lpnt\par
\par
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
artifact repository and manager nexux:\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
maven\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
docker\par
docker run -d -p6001:6379 --name redis-older redis:4.0\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/home# docker exec -it ba57c4a579bf /bin/bash\par
\par
,\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/home# docker exec -it ba57c4a579bf /bin/bash\par
to go to terminal of container,\par
\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/data# ^C\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/data# ls\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/data# pwd /d\par
data/ dev/\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/data# pwd /ddata\par
/data\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/data# cd /\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/# ls\par
bin   data  etc   lib    lib64   media  opt   root  sbin  sys  usr\par
boot  dev   home  lib32  libx32  mnt    proc  run   srv   tmp  var\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/# env\par
HOSTNAME=ba57c4a579bf\par
REDIS_DOWNLOAD_SHA=ce250d1fba042c613de38a15d40889b78f7cb6d5461a27e35017ba39b07221e3\par
PWD=/\par
HOME=/root\par
REDIS_VERSION=7.0.11\par
GOSU_VERSION=1.16\par
TERM=xterm\par
REDIS_DOWNLOAD_URL={{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://download.redis.io/releases/redis-7.0.11.tar.gz }}{\fldrslt{http://download.redis.io/releases/redis-7.0.11.tar.gz\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
SHLVL=1\par
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin\par
_=/usr/bin/env\par
OLDPWD=/data\par
root@ba57c4a579bf:/#,\par
\par
,\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# docker run -it --rm \\\par
    --network ubuntu_my-network \\\par
    --name mongo-express \\\par
    -p 8081:8081 \\\par
    -e ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME="beautiful_robinson" \\\par
    -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER="172.18.0.2" \\\par
    -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME="user" \\\par
    -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD="fairly long password" \\\par
    mongo-express\par
Welcome to mongo-express\par
\par
docker-compose\par
,\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# docker-compose -f /root/a.yaml up\par
stat /root/a.yaml: no such file or directory\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# vim a.yaml\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# sudo mv /home/mongo.yaml /root/\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# ls\par
a.yaml  bin   dev  home  lib32  libx32      media  opt   root  sbin  srv  sys  usr\par
app     boot  etc  lib   lib64  lost+found  mnt    proc  run   snap  ssh  tmp  var\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# sudo docker-compose -f /root/mongo.yaml up\par
,\par
------------------------\par
\par
\par
(node:8) [MONGODB DRIVER] Warning: Current Server Discovery and Monitoring engine is deprecated, and will be removed in a future version. To use the new Server Discover and Monitoring engine, pass option \{ useUnifiedTopology: true \} to the MongoClient constructor.\par
Mongo Express server listening at {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://0.0.0.0:8081 }}{\fldrslt{http://0.0.0.0:8081\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Server is open to allow connections from anyone (0.0.0.0)\par
^Croot@ip-172-31-45-78:/# docker ps\par
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE     COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                                           NAMES\par
be4a567b1a55   mongo     "docker-entrypoint.s\'85"   33 minutes ago   Up 33 minutes   0.0.0.0:27017->27017/tcp, :::27017->27017/tcp   pensive_jackson\par
root@ip-172-31-45-78:/# docker run -it --rm     --network web_default     --name mongo-express     -p 8081:8081     -e ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME="ambiance"     -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER="172.18.0.1"     -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME="user"     -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD="fairly long password"     mongo-express\par
Welcome to mongo-express\par
------------------------\par
\par
\par
(node:7) [MONGODB DRIVER] Warning: Current Server Discovery and Monitoring engine is deprecated, and will be removed in a future version. To use the new Server Discover and Monitoring engine, pass option \{ useUnifiedTopology: true \} to the MongoClient constructor.\par
Mongo Express server listening at {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://0.0.0.0:8081 }}{\fldrslt{http://0.0.0.0:8081\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Server is open to allow connections from anyone (0.0.0.0),\par
docker exec -u 0 -it unruffled_cerf /bin/bash  => go to root user of container\par
getting rid of permission docker exec -u root -it unruffled_cerf /bin/bash\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
jenkins:\par
\par
\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
ansible\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
kubernates\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
teraform\par
\par
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
ci-cd\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
jenkins \b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b  installation commands ( sudo yum install java-17-devel\par
   java -version\par
   wget -O /tmp/jenkins.rpm {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins-2.401.2-1.1.noarch.rpm }}{\fldrslt{https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins-2.401.2-1.1.noarch.rpm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
   sudo yum install /tmp/jenkins.rpm\par
sudo service jenkins start\par
sudo service jenkins status)\par
\b0\par
\par
AWS ID 629341308254\par
Certainly! Here's a step-by-step guide to create the Data Engineering Pipeline with DevOps Tools project. I'll provide important information and considerations for each step:\par
\par
Step 1: Version Control and Project Setup\par
\par
Create a new Git repository on a platform like GitHub or GitLab.\par
Choose a descriptive repository name that reflects the project's purpose.\par
Set up the basic repository structure with directories like src, docker, terraform, and ansible.\par
Step 2: Data Collection and Storage\par
\par
Identify the data sources you'll be working with (APIs, databases, files, etc.).\par
Choose a cloud storage service (Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage) to store raw data.\par
Write Python scripts to fetch and save raw data to the chosen storage.\par
Step 3: Data Transformation with Apache Spark\par
\par
Install Apache Spark and PySpark on your development machine.\par
Develop Spark jobs using PySpark to transform raw data (e.g., cleaning, aggregating).\par
Create separate scripts for each transformation step and store them in the src directory.\par
Step 4: Containerization with Docker\par
\par
Set up Docker on your machine.\par
Create Dockerfiles for each Spark job in the docker directory.\par
Define required dependencies, environment variables, and entry points.\par
Step 5: Continuous Integration with Jenkins\par
\par
Install and configure Jenkins on a server or cloud instance.\par
Create a new Jenkins pipeline linked to your Git repository.\par
Configure the Jenkins pipeline to build Docker images and run tests on the Spark jobs.\par
Implement automated tests using testing frameworks like PyTest.\par
Step 6: Container Orchestration with Kubernetes\par
\par
Choose a cloud provider or use a local Kubernetes cluster (e.g., Minikube).\par
Deploy the Kubernetes cluster using Terraform, defining nodes, network, and security settings.\par
Set up Kubernetes namespaces for isolation.\par
Learn Kubernetes basics like creating deployments, services, and pods.\par
Step 7: Infrastructure as Code with Terraform\par
\par
Install Terraform on your machine.\par
Define the Kubernetes cluster infrastructure using Terraform configuration files.\par
Include resource definitions for nodes, networking, and other required resources.\par
Step 8: Configuration Management with Ansible\par
\par
Install Ansible on your machine.\par
Create Ansible playbooks to configure Kubernetes nodes.\par
Automate dependency installation, firewall settings, and Kubernetes setup.\par
Store sensitive information like credentials securely using Ansible Vault.\par
Step 9: Workflow Automation with Apache Airflow\par
\par
Install and configure Apache Airflow on your machine or a server.\par
Set up Airflow's web UI and scheduler.\par
Develop DAGs to define workflows for Spark job execution and scheduling.\par
Configure task dependencies, retries, and notifications.\par
Step 10: Monitoring and Logging\par
\par
Choose monitoring and logging solutions (Prometheus, Grafana, ELK stack).\par
Set up monitoring for Kubernetes cluster health, resource utilization, and Spark job performance.\par
Configure log shipping from Docker containers and Kubernetes pods to the chosen logging solution.\par
Step 11: Automated Deployment with Jenkins\par
\par
Extend the Jenkins pipeline to include deployment steps.\par
Use Jenkins plugins or Kubernetes CLI commands to deploy Spark jobs to the Kubernetes cluster.\par
Implement CD practices like automated rollbacks and version tagging.\par
Step 12: Documentation and Collaboration\par
\par
Create a README.md file in your repository with project information and setup instructions.\par
Document the repository structure, how to set up the environment, and run the pipeline.\par
Use Git branching strategies (e.g., GitFlow) for collaborative development.\par
Encourage team members to follow coding standards and participate in code reviews.\par
Remember that each step may require further research and learning, especially if you're new to some of the technologies involved. Consider breaking down each step into subtasks and gradually building your project. Also, adapt the project according to your preferences and requirements, as well as any specific tools or technologies you're more comfortable with. Good luck!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
..............................................\par
Absolutely, let's refine the project to focus more on the data engineering aspect while incorporating a mix of popular DevOps tools. Here's an updated version of the project:\par
\par
Project: Building a Data Engineering Pipeline with DevOps Tools\par
\par
Overview:\par
In this project, you'll design and implement a data engineering pipeline that involves collecting, processing, and analyzing data. You'll leverage a range of DevOps tools and technologies to automate and manage the pipeline effectively.\par
\par
Technologies and Tools:\par
\par
Python: For scripting and data manipulation.\par
Git: Version control for source code management.\par
Jenkins: Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) tool for automation.\par
Docker: Containerization for consistent environment setup.\par
Kubernetes: Container orchestration for managing scalable deployments.\par
Terraform: Infrastructure as Code tool for provisioning resources.\par
Ansible: Configuration management and automation.\par
Apache Hadoop: Distributed storage and processing framework.\par
Apache Spark: Distributed data processing and analytics.\par
Apache Airflow: Workflow automation and scheduling.\par
Project Steps:\par
\par
Version Control and Project Setup:\par
\par
Create a Git repository to host your project code.\par
Organize the repository structure with directories for different components.\par
Data Collection and Storage:\par
\par
Identify a data source (e.g., APIs, databases, files).\par
Write Python scripts to retrieve and store raw data in a storage service like Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage.\par
Data Transformation with Apache Spark:\par
\par
Develop Spark jobs using PySpark to transform and cleanse the raw data.\par
Implement ETL processes to convert data into a suitable format for analysis.\par
Containerization with Docker:\par
\par
Create Dockerfiles for the Spark job components.\par
Build Docker images to encapsulate your Spark jobs and their dependencies.\par
Continuous Integration with Jenkins:\par
\par
Set up Jenkins to monitor your Git repository for changes.\par
Configure Jenkins pipelines to build Docker images and run tests on the Spark jobs.\par
Container Orchestration with Kubernetes:\par
\par
Deploy the Dockerized Spark jobs to a Kubernetes cluster for scalability.\par
Use Kubernetes features like scaling, load balancing, and rolling updates.\par
Infrastructure as Code with Terraform:\par
\par
Define the Kubernetes cluster infrastructure using Terraform.\par
Automate the provisioning of the required resources on your cloud provider (e.g., AWS, GCP, Azure).\par
Configuration Management with Ansible:\par
\par
Use Ansible playbooks to configure Kubernetes nodes and manage dependencies.\par
Ensure consistent settings across the cluster.\par
Workflow Automation with Apache Airflow:\par
\par
Set up Airflow to define and schedule data processing workflows.\par
Create DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs) to orchestrate Spark job execution.\par
Monitoring and Logging:\par
\par
Integrate monitoring tools (e.g., Prometheus, Grafana) to track cluster performance.\par
Configure centralized logging using tools like the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana).\par
Automated Deployment with Jenkins:\par
\par
Extend the Jenkins pipeline to automatically deploy Spark jobs to the Kubernetes cluster.\par
Implement CD to ensure new data processing code is efficiently deployed.\par
Documentation and Collaboration:\par
\par
Document the project architecture, setup instructions, and workflow details.\par
Collaborate with your team by using Git branching strategies and pull requests.\par
This refined project combines both data engineering and DevOps aspects, incorporating a modern technology stack to streamline the entire process. Remember that projects like these can be complex, so feel free to adjust the scope and depth based on your experience and project goals. Happy building!\par
\par
\par
}
 